AI Topic Exploration

Topic I Chose
How the eyes connect to the brain and how they work

Why I Chose It
I chose this topic because I am very interested in neuroscience and eventually want to create a prosthetic eye. While I have some extensive knowledge of the brain, I have not yet studied the structure of the eyes much, so I took this as an opportunity.
First Explanation Using An ELI5 Prompt

Vocabulary I Learned
saccades - small movements that happen in your eyes which help them keep images in your vision.
Best Analogy Or Example
Your eye is like an autofocusing sensor that takes in light and converts it into electrical signals.
Misconceptions Or Surprises
Your eyes never stop moving, even when you look at one thing.
First prompt made me curious about Snell's law, the ganglion cell axons, and retinal neurons
My Teach-Back
Your eyes are high-speed sensors that transmit information to the brain, where it is processed and turned into images. As light travels through, it is processed in different ways, ultimately becoming a signal the brain can use. Before the brain can read this signal, the eyes also compress it, reducing bandwidth while retaining the information. Ganglion cells each refine data in a specific way, coming together to process it as a whole in the most advanced manner. The cells also relay the information to the brain, allowing it to fully process it.

ChatGPT said I did not fully understand ganglion cell axons. Instead of processing the information themselves, the ganglion cells each take in a different type of data which has already been processed within the retinal neurons. These cells act as a gateway to the brain instead of as computers themselves.
What I Still Do Not Understand
The specific ways the retinal neurons work
Three Better Questions I Could Ask Next
How does information flow between the eyes and the brain
How does the structure of the eye contribute to its function
What do the parts of the retinal neurons do
Verification Notes
how the retina works neuroscience
optic nerve information transmission
Scientific papers or information from sites like NIH and NEI are very useful for this topic.
I would like to check the claim that the brain receives features rather than pictures.
